README.md, before:

# labview-icon-editor-codex-skills

Layered Codex skill assets for `labview-icon-editor` CI/runtime integrations.

- SPDX-License-Identifier: `0BSD`
- Primary packaged layer: `lvie-codex-skill-layer-installer.exe`
- Current layer modules:
  - `ci-debt/*`
  - `lunit-contract/*`
  - `proactive-loop/*`
  - `headless-parity/*`
  - `linux-ppl-container-build/*`
  - `belt-suspenders/*`
  - `vipm-cli-machine/*`

## Release contract
The release assets are pinned by the source project lock file and validated by:
- SHA256 digest
- required files list
- manifest `license_spdx` (`0BSD`)

CI-gated release contract:
- Primary release gate is this repository's `CI Pipeline` workflow (`.github/workflows/ci.yml`) invoked by `release-skill-layer`.
- `release-skill-layer` dispatch remains explicit for source project pinning (`consumer_repo`, `consumer_ref`, `consumer_sha`), then passes those values into reusable `ci.yml`.
- Release payload includes the NSIS installer and core CI artifacts:
  - `lvie-codex-skill-layer-installer.exe`
  - `lvie-ppl-bundle-windows-x64.zip`
  - `lvie-ppl-bundle-linux-x64.zip`
  - `lvie-vip-package-self-hosted.zip`
  - `release-provenance.json`
  - `release-payload-manifest.json`

Installer contract:
- Canonical NSIS root: `C:\Program Files (x86)\NSIS`
- Required binary: `C:\Program Files (x86)\NSIS\makensis.exe`
- Optional override: repository variable `NSIS_ROOT` or script argument `-MakensisPath`
- NSIS headless install supports `/S`.
- Source project lock defines installer args and install-root template.

## Docker CI
- Workflow: `.github/workflows/ci.yml`
- Purpose: run repository contract tests, build deterministic Windows/Linux container PPL bundles, run a full VIPB diagnostics suite on Linux, build a native self-hosted Windows VI package, then validate VIPM install/uninstall on x86.
- Trigger: all pull requests and manual `workflow_dispatch` (optional `labview_profile` input for target preset id, default `lv2026`).
- Shared test runner: `scripts/Invoke-ContractTests.ps1` (used by local/container execution paths).
  - Test results are emitted to a unique temp NUnit XML path by default (`RUNNER_TEMP`/`TEMP`) to avoid `testResults.xml` lock contention.
- Pipeline order:
  - `contract-tests` -> `run-lunit-smoke-lv2020x64` (required native smoke gate on self-hosted Windows)
  - `contract-tests` -> `build-x64-ppl-windows` -> `build-x64-ppl-linux`
  - `contract-tests` -> `gather-release-notes`
  - `contract-tests` -> `resolve-labview-profile`
  - `contract-tests` + `gather-release-notes` + `resolve-labview-profile` -> `prepare-vipb-linux`
  - `build-vip-self-hosted` needs `build-x64-ppl-windows`, `build-x64-ppl-linux`, `prepare-vipb-linux`, and `run-lunit-smoke-lv2020x64`
  - `build-vip-self-hosted` + `resolve-labview-profile` -> `install-vip-x86-self-hosted`
  - `build-vip-self-hosted` + `install-vip-x86-self-hosted` -> `ci-self-hosted-final-gate`
- LabVIEW target presets (advisory):
  - target preset catalog is repo-owned under `profiles/labview`.
  - target preset resolution runs in `resolve-labview-profile` and publishes `docker-contract-labview-profile-resolution-<run_id>`.
  - target preset mismatch vs source project emits `::warning` + summary advisory, but does not override build target.
  - source project `.lvversion` remains authoritative for VIPB target enforcement.
- VIPB version authority contract:
  - `prepare-vipb-linux` treats `consumer/.lvversion` (source project) as authoritative for VIPB LabVIEW target.
  - minimum supported source project `.lvversion` is `20.0`; values earlier than `20.0` fail deterministically.
  - VIPB prep fails fast when `Package_LabVIEW_Version` differs from `.lvversion` target for selected bitness.
  - diagnostics artifact is still uploaded for post-mortem (`capture diagnostics, then fail`).
  - canonical updater script: `scripts/Update-Vipb.DisplayInfo.ps1`; compatibility shim `scripts/Update-VipbDisplayInfo.ps1` is deprecated and forwards to canonical.
- Windows parity preflight contract:
  - `build-x64-ppl-windows` derives `lv_icon_editor.lvproj` path dynamically and injects it into container parity env vars.
  - `.lvversion` must be colocated with `lv_icon_editor.lvproj`.
- Failure triage:
  - when VIPB prep fails, `Fail if VIPB diagnostics suite failed` now logs root cause + authority status inline and points to `prepare-vipb.error.json`, `vipb-diagnostics-summary.md`, and artifact `docker-contract-vipb-prepared-linux-<run_id>`.
- PPL source contract (CI Pipeline lane):
  - source project repo: `svelderrainruiz/labview-icon-editor`
  - source project ref: `patch/456-2020-migration-branch-from-9e46ecf`
  - expected SHA: `9e46ecf591bc36afca8ddf4ce688a5f58604a12a`
  - windows output path: `consumer/resource/plugins/lv_icon.windows.lvlibp`
  - linux output path: `consumer/resource/plugins/lv_icon.linux.lvlibp`
- Native self-hosted packaging contract:
  - runner labels (bitness-specific): `[self-hosted, windows, self-hosted-windows-lv2020x64, self-hosted-windows-lv2020x86]`
  - required native LabVIEW 2020 smoke runner label: `[self-hosted, windows, self-hosted-windows-lv2020x64]`
  - `run-lunit-smoke-lv2020x64` uses the canonical direct run command only: `g-cli --lv-ver 2020 --arch 64 lunit -- -r <report> <project.lvproj>` (no deterministic `-h` probe).
  - `run-lunit-smoke-lv2020x64` enforces required `64-bit` coverage only.
  - `run-lunit-smoke-lv2020x64` copies the source project to a temp workspace and applies ephemeral `.lvversion=20.0` there (source checkout remains unchanged).
  - `run-lunit-smoke-lv2020x64` performs required VIPM package preflight for LV2020 x64: `astemes_lib_lunit` and `sas_workshops_lib_lunit_for_g_cli`.
  - when LV2020 smoke fails, the script runs a diagnostic-only LV2026 x64 control probe and records comparative outcomes in `lunit-smoke.result.json` and step summary; LV2020 failure still hard-fails the gate.
  - all self-hosted jobs enforce source project remote hygiene via `scripts/Assert-SourceProjectRemotes.ps1`:
    - configure `upstream` to `https://github.com/${{ env.CONSUMER_REPO }}.git`
    - run non-interactive `git ls-remote upstream`
    - fail deterministically if connectivity/auth contract is not met
  - `.vipb` flow in self-hosted lane is consume-only:
    - consume prepared VIPB artifact from Linux prep job into `consumer/Tooling/deployment/NI Icon editor.vipb`
    - consume x64 PPL `consumer/resource/plugins/lv_icon_x64.lvlibp` from Windows bundle
    - build native x86 PPL `consumer/resource/plugins/lv_icon_x86.lvlibp`
  - package version baseline for native lane: `0.1.0.<run_number>`
  - runner-cli fallback build/download is explicitly disabled in this lane via `LVIE_RUNNER_CLI_SKIP_BUILD=1` and `LVIE_RUNNER_CLI_SKIP_DOWNLOAD=1`
  - post-package VIPM install smoke (`install-vip-x86-self-hosted`) runs with:
    - `--labview-version <YYYY>` derived from source project `.lvversion` colocated with `lv_icon_editor.lvproj`
    - fixed `--labview-bitness 32`
    - install then uninstall for deterministic self-hosted hygiene
    - dynamic runner label from `resolve-labview-profile` output: `self-hosted-windows-lv<YYYY>x86`
  - final self-hosted merge gate: `ci-self-hosted-final-gate`
- Published artifacts:
  - `docker-contract-ppl-windows-raw-x64-<run_id>` containing:
    - `consumer/resource/plugins/lv_icon.windows.lvlibp`
  - `docker-contract-ppl-bundle-windows-x64-<run_id>` containing:
    - `lv_icon.windows.lvlibp`
    - `ppl-manifest.json` (`ppl_sha256`, `ppl_size_bytes`, LabVIEW version/bitness provenance)
  - `docker-contract-ppl-linux-raw-x64-<run_id>` containing:
    - `consumer/resource/plugins/lv_icon.linux.lvlibp`
  - `docker-contract-ppl-bundle-linux-x64-<run_id>` containing:
    - `lv_icon.linux.lvlibp`
    - `ppl-manifest.json` (`ppl_sha256`, `ppl_size_bytes`, LabVIEW version/bitness provenance)
  - `docker-contract-release-notes-<run_id>` containing:
    - `release_notes.md`
    - `release-notes-manifest.json` (SHA256 and size for the gathered release notes payload)
  - `docker-contract-labview-profile-resolution-<run_id>` containing:
    - `profile-resolution.json` (selected target preset, source project target, mismatch classification, warning message)
  - `docker-contract-lunit-smoke-lv2020-<run_id>` containing:
    - `lunit-smoke.status.json`
    - `lunit-smoke.result.json`
    - `lunit-smoke.log`
    - `reports/lunit-report-64.xml`
    - `reports/lunit-report-2026-control.xml` (only when LV2020 path fails and control probe executes)
    - `workspace/lvversion.before`
    - `workspace/lvversion.after`
  - `docker-contract-vipb-prepared-linux-<run_id>` containing:
    - prepared `NI Icon editor.vipb` (consumed by self-hosted lane)
    - `vipb.before.xml`, `vipb.after.xml`
    - `vipb.before.sha256`, `vipb.after.sha256`
    - `vipb-diff.json`, `vipb-diff-summary.md`
    - `vipb-diagnostics.json`, `vipb-diagnostics-summary.md`
    - `prepare-vipb.status.json`, `prepare-vipb.error.json` (failure path)
    - `prepare-vipb.log`
    - `display-information.input.json`
    - `profile-resolution.input.json`
  - `docker-contract-vipb-modified-self-hosted-<run_id>` containing:
    - consumed `consumer/Tooling/deployment/NI Icon editor.vipb` used by the self-hosted package build (post-mortem copy)
  - `docker-contract-vip-package-self-hosted-<run_id>` containing:
    - latest built `.vip` from the native self-hosted lane
  - `docker-contract-vipm-install-x86-<run_id>` containing:
    - `vipm-install.status.json`
    - `vipm-install.result.json`
    - `vipm-install.log`
    - `commands/help.txt`
    - `commands/list-before.txt`
    - `commands/install.txt`
    - `commands/list-after-install.txt`
    - `commands/uninstall.txt`
    - `commands/list-after-uninstall.txt`
- Local run (PowerShell image):
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-DockerContractCI.ps1`
- Local diagnostics suite exercise (bounded Docker):
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-PrepareVipbDiagnosticsLocal.ps1`
  - Default bounds: `--memory=3g`, `--cpus=2`, timeout `300s`.
  - Fast triage order:
    1. `vipb-diagnostics-summary.md`
    2. `vipb-diagnostics.json`
    3. `prepare-vipb.log`
    4. `vipb.before.xml` vs `vipb.after.xml`
- Local run (NI LabVIEW Linux image already on this machine):
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-DockerContractCI.ps1 -DockerImage 'nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux' -BootstrapPowerShell`
- Deterministic NI local iteration (recommended):
  - Build once: `docker build -t nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh -f docker/ni-lv-pwsh.Dockerfile .`
  - Optional pin override at build time: `docker build --build-arg PESTER_VERSION=5.7.1 -t nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh -f docker/ni-lv-pwsh.Dockerfile .`
  - Optional native VIPM CLI install (deterministic, checksum-verified): `docker build --build-arg VIPM_CLI_URL='<artifact-url>' --build-arg VIPM_CLI_SHA256='<sha256>' --build-arg VIPM_CLI_ARCHIVE_TYPE='tar.gz' -t nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh -f docker/ni-lv-pwsh.Dockerfile .`
    - Supported archive types: `tar.gz`/`tgz`/`zip`
    - Contract: if either `VIPM_CLI_URL` or `VIPM_CLI_SHA256` is set, both must be provided.
    - Image install path: `/usr/local/bin/vipm`
  - Run tests: `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-DockerContractCI.ps1 -DockerImage 'nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh'`

### What to test after image changes
- Verify tools in image:
  - `docker run --rm nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh pwsh -NoProfile -Command "$PSVersionTable.PSVersion.ToString(); (Get-Module -ListAvailable Pester | Sort-Object Version -Descending | Select-Object -First 1).Version.ToString()"`
- Verify native VIPM (when `VIPM_CLI_*` build args were provided):
  - `docker run --rm nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh bash -lc "command -v vipm >/dev/null && (vipm --version || vipm version)"`
- Fast smoke test (one suite):
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-DockerContractCI.ps1 -DockerImage 'nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh' -TestPath './tests/ManifestContract.Tests.ps1'`
- Full contract suite:
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-DockerContractCI.ps1 -DockerImage 'nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh' -TestPath './tests/*.Tests.ps1'`
- VIPM activation contract on NI image:
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-DockerContractCI.ps1 -DockerImage 'nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh' -TestPath './tests/VipmCliActivationContract.Tests.ps1'`
  - Covers `VIPM_COMMUNITY_EDITION=true` => `vipm activate` preflight behavior.

## Autonomous CI loop
- Continuous autonomous branch integration helper:
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-AutonomousCiLoop.ps1`
- Typical bounded smoke run (1 cycle, stop on failure):
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-AutonomousCiLoop.ps1 -MaxCycles 1 -StopOnFailure`
- Pass workflow dispatch inputs (`key=value`) repeatedly:
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-AutonomousCiLoop.ps1 -WorkflowInput "ppl_build_lane=linux-container" -WorkflowInput "consumer_ref=develop"`
  - If `consumer_ref` is omitted, the loop now defaults it to `develop`.
- Backend selection (phase-1 runner-cli adapter):
  - `-DispatchBackend auto|runner-cli|gh` (default `auto`)
  - `-RunQueryBackend auto|runner-cli|gh` (default `auto`)
  - In `auto`, loop prefers `runner-cli` when available and falls back to `gh`.
- Built-in package triage profile (reaches `package-vip-linux` even when consumer parity scripts are missing):
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-AutonomousCiLoop.ps1 -TriagePackageVipLinux`
  - Profile injects both `windows_build_command` and `linux_build_command` stubs so parallel PPL jobs can complete without consumer parity scripts.
- Remediation mode with VIPM CLI injection during image fallback builds:
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-AutonomousCiLoop.ps1 -TriagePackageVipLinux -VipmCliUrl "<artifact-url>" -VipmCliSha256 "<sha256>" -VipmCliArchiveType tar.gz`
- Optional JSONL log output:
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-AutonomousCiLoop.ps1 -LogPath ./artifacts/release-state/autonomous-ci-loop.jsonl`
  - Each cycle now records `workflow_run.vipm_help_preview` with `observed`, `usage_line_observed`, `source`, and `check_error`.
  - Each cycle also records `workflow_run.dispatch_response` with `exit_code` and `output_preview` from the dispatch command.
  - `workflow_run.dispatch_response.method` indicates the backend used (`runner-cli` or `gh`).
  - Run correlation is pinned to dispatch time plus expected `HEAD` SHA to avoid selecting a different concurrent run on the same branch.

## Release orchestrator backend selection
- Script: `scripts/Invoke-ReleaseOrchestrator.ps1`
- New optional switch:
  - `-DispatchBackend auto|runner-cli|gh|rest` (default `auto`)
- Behavior:
  - `auto`: tries `runner-cli` (if present), then `gh`, then REST API token fallback.
  - `runner-cli`/`gh`/`rest`: force a specific backend and fail fast if unavailable.

Commit message:

Guard LV2026 control probe to avoid duplicate LabVIEW launches

README.md, after:

# labview-icon-editor-codex-skills

Layered Codex skill assets for `labview-icon-editor` CI/runtime integrations.

- SPDX-License-Identifier: `0BSD`
- Primary packaged layer: `lvie-codex-skill-layer-installer.exe`
- Current layer modules:
  - `ci-debt/*`
  - `lunit-contract/*`
  - `proactive-loop/*`
  - `headless-parity/*`
  - `linux-ppl-container-build/*`
  - `belt-suspenders/*`
  - `vipm-cli-machine/*`

## Release contract
The release assets are pinned by the source project lock file and validated by:
- SHA256 digest
- required files list
- manifest `license_spdx` (`0BSD`)

CI-gated release contract:
- Primary release gate is this repository's `CI Pipeline` workflow (`.github/workflows/ci.yml`) invoked by `release-skill-layer`.
- `release-skill-layer` dispatch remains explicit for source project pinning (`consumer_repo`, `consumer_ref`, `consumer_sha`), then passes those values into reusable `ci.yml`.
- Release payload includes the NSIS installer and core CI artifacts:
  - `lvie-codex-skill-layer-installer.exe`
  - `lvie-ppl-bundle-windows-x64.zip`
  - `lvie-ppl-bundle-linux-x64.zip`
  - `lvie-vip-package-self-hosted.zip`
  - `release-provenance.json`
  - `release-payload-manifest.json`

Installer contract:
- Canonical NSIS root: `C:\Program Files (x86)\NSIS`
- Required binary: `C:\Program Files (x86)\NSIS\makensis.exe`
- Optional override: repository variable `NSIS_ROOT` or script argument `-MakensisPath`
- NSIS headless install supports `/S`.
- Source project lock defines installer args and install-root template.

## Docker CI
- Workflow: `.github/workflows/ci.yml`
- Purpose: run repository contract tests, build deterministic Windows/Linux container PPL bundles, run a full VIPB diagnostics suite on Linux, build a native self-hosted Windows VI package, then validate VIPM install/uninstall on x86.
- Trigger: all pull requests and manual `workflow_dispatch` (optional `labview_profile` input for target preset id, default `lv2026`).
- Shared test runner: `scripts/Invoke-ContractTests.ps1` (used by local/container execution paths).
  - Test results are emitted to a unique temp NUnit XML path by default (`RUNNER_TEMP`/`TEMP`) to avoid `testResults.xml` lock contention.
- Pipeline order:
  - `contract-tests` -> `run-lunit-smoke-lv2020x64` (required native smoke gate on self-hosted Windows)
  - `contract-tests` -> `build-x64-ppl-windows` -> `build-x64-ppl-linux`
  - `contract-tests` -> `gather-release-notes`
  - `contract-tests` -> `resolve-labview-profile`
  - `contract-tests` + `gather-release-notes` + `resolve-labview-profile` -> `prepare-vipb-linux`
  - `build-vip-self-hosted` needs `build-x64-ppl-windows`, `build-x64-ppl-linux`, `prepare-vipb-linux`, and `run-lunit-smoke-lv2020x64`
  - `build-vip-self-hosted` + `resolve-labview-profile` -> `install-vip-x86-self-hosted`
  - `build-vip-self-hosted` + `install-vip-x86-self-hosted` -> `ci-self-hosted-final-gate`
- LabVIEW target presets (advisory):
  - target preset catalog is repo-owned under `profiles/labview`.
  - target preset resolution runs in `resolve-labview-profile` and publishes `docker-contract-labview-profile-resolution-<run_id>`.
  - target preset mismatch vs source project emits `::warning` + summary advisory, but does not override build target.
  - source project `.lvversion` remains authoritative for VIPB target enforcement.
- VIPB version authority contract:
  - `prepare-vipb-linux` treats `consumer/.lvversion` (source project) as authoritative for VIPB LabVIEW target.
  - minimum supported source project `.lvversion` is `20.0`; values earlier than `20.0` fail deterministically.
  - VIPB prep fails fast when `Package_LabVIEW_Version` differs from `.lvversion` target for selected bitness.
  - diagnostics artifact is still uploaded for post-mortem (`capture diagnostics, then fail`).
  - canonical updater script: `scripts/Update-Vipb.DisplayInfo.ps1`; compatibility shim `scripts/Update-VipbDisplayInfo.ps1` is deprecated and forwards to canonical.
- Windows parity preflight contract:
  - `build-x64-ppl-windows` derives `lv_icon_editor.lvproj` path dynamically and injects it into container parity env vars.
  - `.lvversion` must be colocated with `lv_icon_editor.lvproj`.
- Failure triage:
  - when VIPB prep fails, `Fail if VIPB diagnostics suite failed` now logs root cause + authority status inline and points to `prepare-vipb.error.json`, `vipb-diagnostics-summary.md`, and artifact `docker-contract-vipb-prepared-linux-<run_id>`.
- PPL source contract (CI Pipeline lane):
  - source project repo: `svelderrainruiz/labview-icon-editor`
  - source project ref: `patch/456-2020-migration-branch-from-9e46ecf`
  - expected SHA: `9e46ecf591bc36afca8ddf4ce688a5f58604a12a`
  - windows output path: `consumer/resource/plugins/lv_icon.windows.lvlibp`
  - linux output path: `consumer/resource/plugins/lv_icon.linux.lvlibp`
- Native self-hosted packaging contract:
  - runner labels (bitness-specific): `[self-hosted, windows, self-hosted-windows-lv2020x64, self-hosted-windows-lv2020x86]`
  - required native LabVIEW 2020 smoke runner label: `[self-hosted, windows, self-hosted-windows-lv2020x64]`
  - `run-lunit-smoke-lv2020x64` uses the canonical direct run command only: `g-cli --lv-ver 2020 --arch 64 lunit -- -r <report> <project.lvproj>` (no deterministic `-h` probe).
  - `run-lunit-smoke-lv2020x64` enforces required `64-bit` coverage only.
  - `run-lunit-smoke-lv2020x64` copies the source project to a temp workspace and applies ephemeral `.lvversion=20.0` there (source checkout remains unchanged).
  - `run-lunit-smoke-lv2020x64` performs required VIPM package preflight for LV2020 x64: `astemes_lib_lunit` and `sas_workshops_lib_lunit_for_g_cli`.
  - when LV2020 smoke fails with comparable validation outcomes (`no_testcases` or `failed_testcases`), the script runs a diagnostic-only LV2026 x64 control probe and records comparative outcomes in `lunit-smoke.result.json` and step summary.
  - the LV2026 control probe is skipped if active LabVIEW processes are detected to avoid spawning duplicate instances during triage.
  - LV2020 failure still hard-fails the gate regardless of control-probe outcome.
  - all self-hosted jobs enforce source project remote hygiene via `scripts/Assert-SourceProjectRemotes.ps1`:
    - configure `upstream` to `https://github.com/${{ env.CONSUMER_REPO }}.git`
    - run non-interactive `git ls-remote upstream`
    - fail deterministically if connectivity/auth contract is not met
  - `.vipb` flow in self-hosted lane is consume-only:
    - consume prepared VIPB artifact from Linux prep job into `consumer/Tooling/deployment/NI Icon editor.vipb`
    - consume x64 PPL `consumer/resource/plugins/lv_icon_x64.lvlibp` from Windows bundle
    - build native x86 PPL `consumer/resource/plugins/lv_icon_x86.lvlibp`
  - package version baseline for native lane: `0.1.0.<run_number>`
  - runner-cli fallback build/download is explicitly disabled in this lane via `LVIE_RUNNER_CLI_SKIP_BUILD=1` and `LVIE_RUNNER_CLI_SKIP_DOWNLOAD=1`
  - post-package VIPM install smoke (`install-vip-x86-self-hosted`) runs with:
    - `--labview-version <YYYY>` derived from source project `.lvversion` colocated with `lv_icon_editor.lvproj`
    - fixed `--labview-bitness 32`
    - install then uninstall for deterministic self-hosted hygiene
    - dynamic runner label from `resolve-labview-profile` output: `self-hosted-windows-lv<YYYY>x86`
  - final self-hosted merge gate: `ci-self-hosted-final-gate`
- Published artifacts:
  - `docker-contract-ppl-windows-raw-x64-<run_id>` containing:
    - `consumer/resource/plugins/lv_icon.windows.lvlibp`
  - `docker-contract-ppl-bundle-windows-x64-<run_id>` containing:
    - `lv_icon.windows.lvlibp`
    - `ppl-manifest.json` (`ppl_sha256`, `ppl_size_bytes`, LabVIEW version/bitness provenance)
  - `docker-contract-ppl-linux-raw-x64-<run_id>` containing:
    - `consumer/resource/plugins/lv_icon.linux.lvlibp`
  - `docker-contract-ppl-bundle-linux-x64-<run_id>` containing:
    - `lv_icon.linux.lvlibp`
    - `ppl-manifest.json` (`ppl_sha256`, `ppl_size_bytes`, LabVIEW version/bitness provenance)
  - `docker-contract-release-notes-<run_id>` containing:
    - `release_notes.md`
    - `release-notes-manifest.json` (SHA256 and size for the gathered release notes payload)
  - `docker-contract-labview-profile-resolution-<run_id>` containing:
    - `profile-resolution.json` (selected target preset, source project target, mismatch classification, warning message)
  - `docker-contract-lunit-smoke-lv2020-<run_id>` containing:
    - `lunit-smoke.status.json`
    - `lunit-smoke.result.json`
    - `lunit-smoke.log`
    - `reports/lunit-report-64.xml`
    - `reports/lunit-report-2026-control.xml` (only when LV2020 path fails and control probe executes)
    - `workspace/lvversion.before`
    - `workspace/lvversion.after`
  - `docker-contract-vipb-prepared-linux-<run_id>` containing:
    - prepared `NI Icon editor.vipb` (consumed by self-hosted lane)
    - `vipb.before.xml`, `vipb.after.xml`
    - `vipb.before.sha256`, `vipb.after.sha256`
    - `vipb-diff.json`, `vipb-diff-summary.md`
    - `vipb-diagnostics.json`, `vipb-diagnostics-summary.md`
    - `prepare-vipb.status.json`, `prepare-vipb.error.json` (failure path)
    - `prepare-vipb.log`
    - `display-information.input.json`
    - `profile-resolution.input.json`
  - `docker-contract-vipb-modified-self-hosted-<run_id>` containing:
    - consumed `consumer/Tooling/deployment/NI Icon editor.vipb` used by the self-hosted package build (post-mortem copy)
  - `docker-contract-vip-package-self-hosted-<run_id>` containing:
    - latest built `.vip` from the native self-hosted lane
  - `docker-contract-vipm-install-x86-<run_id>` containing:
    - `vipm-install.status.json`
    - `vipm-install.result.json`
    - `vipm-install.log`
    - `commands/help.txt`
    - `commands/list-before.txt`
    - `commands/install.txt`
    - `commands/list-after-install.txt`
    - `commands/uninstall.txt`
    - `commands/list-after-uninstall.txt`
- Local run (PowerShell image):
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-DockerContractCI.ps1`
- Local diagnostics suite exercise (bounded Docker):
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-PrepareVipbDiagnosticsLocal.ps1`
  - Default bounds: `--memory=3g`, `--cpus=2`, timeout `300s`.
  - Fast triage order:
    1. `vipb-diagnostics-summary.md`
    2. `vipb-diagnostics.json`
    3. `prepare-vipb.log`
    4. `vipb.before.xml` vs `vipb.after.xml`
- Local run (NI LabVIEW Linux image already on this machine):
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-DockerContractCI.ps1 -DockerImage 'nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux' -BootstrapPowerShell`
- Deterministic NI local iteration (recommended):
  - Build once: `docker build -t nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh -f docker/ni-lv-pwsh.Dockerfile .`
  - Optional pin override at build time: `docker build --build-arg PESTER_VERSION=5.7.1 -t nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh -f docker/ni-lv-pwsh.Dockerfile .`
  - Optional native VIPM CLI install (deterministic, checksum-verified): `docker build --build-arg VIPM_CLI_URL='<artifact-url>' --build-arg VIPM_CLI_SHA256='<sha256>' --build-arg VIPM_CLI_ARCHIVE_TYPE='tar.gz' -t nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh -f docker/ni-lv-pwsh.Dockerfile .`
    - Supported archive types: `tar.gz`/`tgz`/`zip`
    - Contract: if either `VIPM_CLI_URL` or `VIPM_CLI_SHA256` is set, both must be provided.
    - Image install path: `/usr/local/bin/vipm`
  - Run tests: `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-DockerContractCI.ps1 -DockerImage 'nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh'`

### What to test after image changes
- Verify tools in image:
  - `docker run --rm nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh pwsh -NoProfile -Command "$PSVersionTable.PSVersion.ToString(); (Get-Module -ListAvailable Pester | Sort-Object Version -Descending | Select-Object -First 1).Version.ToString()"`
- Verify native VIPM (when `VIPM_CLI_*` build args were provided):
  - `docker run --rm nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh bash -lc "command -v vipm >/dev/null && (vipm --version || vipm version)"`
- Fast smoke test (one suite):
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-DockerContractCI.ps1 -DockerImage 'nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh' -TestPath './tests/ManifestContract.Tests.ps1'`
- Full contract suite:
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-DockerContractCI.ps1 -DockerImage 'nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh' -TestPath './tests/*.Tests.ps1'`
- VIPM activation contract on NI image:
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-DockerContractCI.ps1 -DockerImage 'nationalinstruments/labview:2026q1-linux-pwsh' -TestPath './tests/VipmCliActivationContract.Tests.ps1'`
  - Covers `VIPM_COMMUNITY_EDITION=true` => `vipm activate` preflight behavior.

## Autonomous CI loop
- Continuous autonomous branch integration helper:
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-AutonomousCiLoop.ps1`
- Typical bounded smoke run (1 cycle, stop on failure):
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-AutonomousCiLoop.ps1 -MaxCycles 1 -StopOnFailure`
- Pass workflow dispatch inputs (`key=value`) repeatedly:
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-AutonomousCiLoop.ps1 -WorkflowInput "ppl_build_lane=linux-container" -WorkflowInput "consumer_ref=develop"`
  - If `consumer_ref` is omitted, the loop now defaults it to `develop`.
- Backend selection (phase-1 runner-cli adapter):
  - `-DispatchBackend auto|runner-cli|gh` (default `auto`)
  - `-RunQueryBackend auto|runner-cli|gh` (default `auto`)
  - In `auto`, loop prefers `runner-cli` when available and falls back to `gh`.
- Built-in package triage profile (reaches `package-vip-linux` even when consumer parity scripts are missing):
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-AutonomousCiLoop.ps1 -TriagePackageVipLinux`
  - Profile injects both `windows_build_command` and `linux_build_command` stubs so parallel PPL jobs can complete without consumer parity scripts.
- Remediation mode with VIPM CLI injection during image fallback builds:
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-AutonomousCiLoop.ps1 -TriagePackageVipLinux -VipmCliUrl "<artifact-url>" -VipmCliSha256 "<sha256>" -VipmCliArchiveType tar.gz`
- Optional JSONL log output:
  - `pwsh -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File ./scripts/Invoke-AutonomousCiLoop.ps1 -LogPath ./artifacts/release-state/autonomous-ci-loop.jsonl`
  - Each cycle now records `workflow_run.vipm_help_preview` with `observed`, `usage_line_observed`, `source`, and `check_error`.
  - Each cycle also records `workflow_run.dispatch_response` with `exit_code` and `output_preview` from the dispatch command.
  - `workflow_run.dispatch_response.method` indicates the backend used (`runner-cli` or `gh`).
  - Run correlation is pinned to dispatch time plus expected `HEAD` SHA to avoid selecting a different concurrent run on the same branch.

## Release orchestrator backend selection
- Script: `scripts/Invoke-ReleaseOrchestrator.ps1`
- New optional switch:
  - `-DispatchBackend auto|runner-cli|gh|rest` (default `auto`)
- Behavior:
  - `auto`: tries `runner-cli` (if present), then `gh`, then REST API token fallback.
  - `runner-cli`/`gh`/`rest`: force a specific backend and fail fast if unavailable.
